So then in 1930
you went to the Air Corps Technical School and you
stayed there for a year? No, it was less than that. I
think it was only about six months. Okay, okay. And
what did you learn at the technical school?
Armament. This is the munitions, guns, bombs,
sights.
Everyone back then was supposed to have a
specialty, but he wasn't required to stay in it as
they are now. Mm-hmm. I didn't actually get back
into my specialty in the war until the war came.
Mm-hmm. And I wish I hadn't then, but go ahead. And
then in 1931, you were transferred to Hawaii?
Something like that. Yeah. Okay, you were
assigned to Hawaii. To a bomb squadron, a tactical
unit. Mm-hmm. And how long were you there? Three
years. And you were, what were you doing,
training? I was the squadron engineering
officer. Generally speaking, the whole deal was a
training deal. Sure. You were training for war, of
course.
You didn't see any war. I'll illustrate. When I
first accepted my regular commission. I had a
commission leave and went home. And my father took
me on a roundabout that he was going on, but
introduced me to a man that he knew who was a retired
Army colonel who'd spent 30 years in the service,
retired and was an office manager for a firm. So we
sat and talked about it, and I said, I was by no means
sure that I wanted to stay in the service, as I told
you. And I said, The purpose of the military is to
have a war, and I don't see any prospect of a war. And
he said, son, I was in the service 30 years, and from
time to time things looked mighty bleak. It looked
like we'd never have another war, but I was in three
of them. Well, he didn't think it was funny. I did. I
still do. Things looked mighty bleak.
That is sort of like that. We were training, and as
it turned out, we didn't realize how well we were
trained.
People who had to accept much, much higher
responsibilities as a rule turned out pretty
well. So you were in Hawaii then, training from
1932 to 1935. At this time, Japan was moved in 1931,
moved against Manchuria, and were you out there or
the people out in Hawaii worried about Japanese
expansion at this time? Do you remember if that was
a concern then? Yes, it wasn't a great concern of a
second lieutenant. Yeah.
But I remember it. In fact, yes, I remember it, and I
remember Even more, a couple of incidents of a
Japanese that I've happened to run into, well, in
the Big Island of Maui, for example, one night, a
goddamn near riot, anyway, the fierce hatred
between the Japanese and Chinese. You see,
another thing about it, which I might add, for
whatever it's worth, the islands were largely
populated by Japanese, Chinese.
And of course, the originals, but
no one there trusted the Japanese
because of this feeling that this thing that none
of us really believed would happen. I certainly
didn't. I didn't really think it would happen, but
nobody trusted them. Now, this was unfair.
because as you know the history of the Japanese
units and the war and what happened, it was quite
unfair. And the internment on them was quite
unfair. But it was part of the deal. Back in the
United States at this time, we had of course the
Great Depression. Did the Great Depression have
any impact on the military? Not much. Don't get me
wrong, I knew about it. My sister, for example, and
her husband suffered under it quite a bit. They
came out of it, but the props fell out from under
them. But it didn't affect us much. Oh, to be sure,
there were certain things, the strictures on the
military, we couldn't We had no money to pick up
fuel. We had to go where the fuel was and we couldn't
go, that sort of thing. And oh hell, when I went to
Hawaii, that was at the time the banks were frozen.
Sure. And I had no money to go on, and when I was
ordered to go, I had to go. There was a tailor that I
bought uniforms from, and I was bitching about
this. I was going to have to make it some way. And he
said, how much money you need? And I told him about
what I thought it'd take to get to California. And
he reached under a pile of cloth and got the money
and gave it to me, and lent it to me. He had been
warned that this was going to happen. He'd gone
over to the bank and drawn out a roll, a bill that
big. And of course, we were ordered to do things and
didn't have any per diem. These were, as it were, at
our own expense. Honestly, that wasn't a handicap
compared to what was going on in the civilian
economy. I see. Not at all. I was told, for example,
at one time I had to cut my, I couldn't fly more than a
certain number of hours a year. Sure. So I went to a
senior officer and I said, look, I'm going to fly
more than that because I'm ordered to. And he said,
don't bother with it. Just keep track. Just keep
your copies of your orders. And when I ran up
against the deadline of the number of hours,
nobody said a word. I went ahead and flew as
ordered. Presumably, somebody else didn't fly to
that limit. I don't know. But these things are
picky. The Depression didn't really hurt. What it
did do, however, of course, was fund some elegant
construction, Randolph, Hamilton Field,
beautiful places, and Maxwell, which couldn't
possibly have been built except for that money. I
want to point out that the country sure got a lot for
that money, the construction quality. those
projects were just simply unbelievable compared
to what you get nowadays for 15 times the amount of
money, but let's drop it.
Now one aspect about the military during the 1930s
was that advancement was real slow. Yeah. Did that
Did that have any impact on you? I mean, did it make
you- Bother me a bit. Didn't bother you? No. You
see, the whole thing was on a seniority basis. And I
reckoned that if I was lucky, that I'd retire as a
major. If I wasn't, I'd retire as a captain. I
didn't worry about that. The hierarchy, the
structure, occasionally was bothersome because
you'd get some old fud that wasn't worth a goddamn
who nevertheless held the rank to give orders but
almost invariably some way would be found to get
this man out of the way and go ahead about your
business. I could illustrate that but there's no
point in it. Okay, 1935 you left Hawaii and you went
As a flying instructor, you were assigned as a
flying instructor to the Air Corps Advanced
Flying School, and you were there for the next six
years from 1935 to 1941. Well, what happened was
this. The war in Europe got people realizing
that our forces were not big enough, and
particularly the Air Force wasn't. I was ordered
away. As a matter of fact, I was ordered to the
engineering school at Wright-Patt. That's an
advanced engineering school for the Air Corps, a
pretty high level aeronautical engineering
deal. And I was on my way to Wright-Patt, just going
by way of New York to look at a couple of shows, and
was having breakfast in the club on my way to
Wright-Patt to find a place to live, when a
classmate of mine came in the club, had breakfast,
sat down, and said, Are you going? I told him,
ordered up. He said, well, no, you're not.
Back then, the New York Times used to publish
orders. It was so small that it was news. So he
backed pages of the New York Times, Lieutenant
Kennedy orders, and so forth, canceled. And I had
been ordered up there once before. And the
commander, Kelly, blocked those. Then this came
up because we had this expansion. That's how it
happened that I was there so long.
The first part of that duty was finally- So it was
down at Kelly. Yes. And so I stayed there. Yeah. And
I went to England before we were in the war while I
was still assigned to Kelly. But the first part of
that duty was absolutely delightful. It really
was. no comparison to it in anything I served in.
Why? Why do you say that? Well, because you were
instructing in a system which is long, long since
outmoded. You got assigned a group of students to
yourself, and you could work with them for their
individual characteristics, what they were.
you were given a lot of latitude in your duty. And
furthermore, every four months a class
graduated, and we'd have about two weeks when we
didn't have a class there. And the line was full of
airplanes, and you could go get one and go any
goddamn place you wanted to. And I did. Also, we had
a hunting and fishing camp down in Mount Agorda. In
the first part of it, we frequently didn't fly in
the afternoons. And our night flying was set aside
so that you knew when that was. And you could take
off at noon and go down there and fish or hunt and
come back at night. And it was a very pleasant life.
We were congenial. All the guys that were doing
this kind of work liked it. If they didn't, He
didn't have to do it, and it was far and away the most
pleasant service I ever had. As time went on and the
war came on in Europe, it was not that much fun
because it was a night and day job all the time. I'm
not criticizing it because it was still good work,
but you had to formalize it. This is the nature of
things. You had to put in a production line in order
to get it all done. And you couldn't deal with the
individuals as you could before. You could as best
you could, but it wasn't the same. Also, I was
taking out a good deal and a lot of part of it to do
other work, field location boards and that sort of
thing.
How good was the training that you gave the pilot
cadets? I don't think there were any better pilots
in the world than what we had during that time. Mind
you, there are no better pilots in the world right
now than the U.S. Air Force. Possibly the
Israelis. They use the same system. But man for
man, they're probably about as good as we are. They
don't have as good an Air Force. I didn't mean that.
No, but that, see that old system couldn't turn out
the number you needed. Right. And I don't think
there are any spots on the pilots. We turned out
back then, they were the best. And we didn't just
turn them out for the Air Force, we turned them out
for the airlines too. Yeah.
No, I don't have any, I don't have doubts about
that. I'm not being just prideful of my service. I
think this is an objective point of view. I think we
proved it. And what type of training did you
yourself offer? Well, my, you mean additional
being a flying instructor? No, what, I mean, were
you... instructor for the bombers or for the
fighters? Most of the time I spent in the bomb
section.
I was about to tell a story but it won't illustrate
anything so I'll get off it. Most of the time it was
bombers. We got the castoffs from the Tactical Air
Force. As the Tactical Air Force got through with
an airplane, we got it. So generally our airplanes
were old, but they were pretty reliable. I want to
be explicit about this. They weren't worth a
goddamn as combat airplanes. This was an
oversight on the part of the Air Force that went way
back. We didn't get good combat airplanes until we
were in combat. But they were good airplanes.
For example, I trained for a while with a thing
called a B-18. That was a two-engine bomb, a great
big goddamn thing. It was a good airplane. It
wasn't worth a damn as a combat airplane. The first
airplane that would have been in any way worthy as a
combat airplane, we didn't even get it as a
trainer, was a B-10. And the B-17, as it came out
originally, was a hell of a good airplane, one with
a dam as a combat airplane.
I'm a bit prejudiced in this because, as I told you,
my specialty was the combat mechanism of the
airplane. And that's the part that was so long
overlooked. And much of this had to be repaired in
the stress of war. But as flying machines and as
pilots, there
weren't anywhere in the world any better. And we
got foreign students. I trained a number of
foreign students when I was at Kelly. Where were
they from, England? No, South America. South
America, okay. Now during this time, during the
mid-1930s,
According to Chenault's memoirs, have you ever
read Way of the Fighter? Who? General Claire
Chenault, have you ever read his memoirs? I'm
sorry I haven't, I knew him. He stated that the Army
Air Corps overlooked the potential of fighter
airplanes and that there were a group of bomber
generals who ran the show and those people thought
that heavy bombers could never be attacked and
would always be able to withstand any kind of
anti-aircraft fire, and therefore we didn't need
fighters, and we usually trained people in
bombers. What did you think about the use of
fighters versus bombers? Chenault was dead
right. Improved it. See, I'm not aware of the book.
I don't know why, but anyway, I haven't read it. But
I'm well aware of this particular contention on
his part because I was there. He left the service
because he couldn't get anybody to listen. He was
absolutely right, and the war proved it. The
problem, the fundamental, the basic problem is
still with us.
I don't want to wade into that. The best man you can
talk to about that is Bernie Schreiber.
What did you think of Chenault? You said you knew
him. Look, he was an instructor at Brooks when I
went through here. And, oh Christ, that guy could
fly better than anybody, but anybody except a few
of his contemporaries were just as good. I
remember, just to illustrate, they had a
competition about who could make the landing more
accurately with a goddamn PT, primary trainer.
And Brooklyn, they named the field after him,
Chenault, who the hell was the third one? He's dead
too, so it doesn't matter. Anyway, they marked the
place just over the helm and the airplane had to
come down just like this. And so, you know what a
campaign hat is? We used to wear them, a big goddamn
thing. Chenault put his hat down there and the
tailskid of the airplane was a marker. Chenault
came in and put his tailskid on his hat. Gee whiz. I
remember, for example, sitting by the stage
house. There was a stage house. There's a thing
straight up in Brooks Field, out in the field. And
then there was a crapper over here. It was a pretty
big one. And we'd sit around there and fly from that
place because it was more convenient than the
hiring line. But this morning the fog was in low and
we were just sitting around there and here come
three airplanes. And I don't know which one of them
was leading, but he had convinced the other three,
the other two, that they couldn't get between the
crapper and the stage house, but they did. They
overlapped their wings and did. That's the kind of
people they were. And Chenault, as you may know if
you read his book, I'm sure he told you, he designed
the fighter tactics that were used. And he had a
flying circus up there at Maxwell. He had one at
Kelly for that matter. But what he was trying to
tell these guys was the same thesis that I'm
telling you, that goddamn airplanes weren't
worth a crap for combat. And they were great to fly.
See, the big bomber guys thought that they could
fly over the flak, but damn it, anybody that knew
anything about German munitions knew goddamn
well they couldn't. And the British tried to tell
us that.
Of course, there was one point I want to make in
which logic did prevail. And I say this because I'm
familiar with that too. I flew an observation for a
time. This is a two-man airplane in which one guy
does the observing and the other one doesn't. And
we realized in time that that could not survive.
And the mission, which observation had had, was
scrubbed and went into fighters as
reconnaissance. That's what you call it now. So it
wasn't a total loss situation because the Air
Corps people didn't have sense enough to realize
that that thing that they'd been doing so long,
which the Army thought was great, couldn't
survive, and they didn't stay with it. The painful
part of it was getting all this munitions onto the
airplane, which people wouldn't, goddammit, no
matter what you said, they wouldn't design it onto
the airplane.
I remember too well the time when a fighter guy
would look to see whether or not the baggage
compartment would carry a stick of It's golf
clubs, and it's B4 bag. That's all he was
interested in. He didn't give a damn about the
guns. What you want to do and what you must do in a
weapons system is start with what you're going to
do with the goddamn thing. That's all Chenault was
trying to tell people. And trying to tell them
things that were perfectly obvious, but they
wouldn't listen. They still don't. Why do you
think they would not listen? I can take it out of
context and explain it very quickly.
They're bringing a battleship out of mothballs.
You know why? The Navy loves battleships.
I don't want to talk about it anymore. It's a highly
complex subject. This is the area that I mentioned
a while ago, where you have all kinds of forces, not
headed bastards to deal with. And if you want to
come out with a project goal, you have to deal with
all those things. You can't get exasperated about
them. And these two men I mentioned were masters of
it. I mean, two Aggie generals that I mentioned are
masters of it. Ludeke and Shriver.
God almighty. But I remember when Bernie, for
example, was patting the halls in the Pentagon,
trying to put over what he was trying to put over,
trying to get the knotheads to go along with him,
and he was just about to be shipped out to, I don't
know whether he knew it or not, I think he did, but he
prevailed. That's what it takes.
Hell, let's get off that subject. Okay, let's...
Did Chennault teach you how to fly? Oh, no. He was a
stage commander, a check pilot. Did I fly with him?
No, no. I flew with the third guy. He's here. He
lives out in the country. Nick Carter.
I'll illustrate, and I never had to write a check
with Chenault, so I never flew with him, but I knew
him. And you had to know people like that. God damn
it, he was a... Let me illustrate the methodology.
I had an instructor
who was a hell of a nice guy. As a matter of fact, he
was from A&M. But he fell out, and I had a series of
them, and it happened at the time I was coming up for
a check, I had a true horse's ass. And so I went into
this check ride, you know, God damn, am I gonna do
something right or not, and fiddled around, and I
was about to bust it. The check ride is, you do
things, you spin to a point, and they cut the gun on
you, and you find a place to land, and all kinds of
goddamn things, everything that you're supposed
to know how to do. So this guy I was riding a check
with just gave me uncharted hell in the air, cut the
gun. There was no gospel system in it. You had to
holler at each other. Well, I didn't lose my
temper, but I did get angry. And so he gave me a force
landing, and I just cut the gun and walked it down,
mad.
He says, for Christ's sake, why don't you do that
all the time? All he was really trying to do was to
get me to be natural. And he was being mean to do it.
And Chenault was that way. But his
mission, his objective was absolutely
unchallengeable. this would work with one fellow
in the woodwork or not, I don't know. I went through
it myself later and my assessment was sometimes
that's what you have to do and sometimes something
else is what you have to do. Sometimes you have to
hold the guy's hand until he learns what he needs to
know. But I think, let's see,
The two men I mentioned are not familiar with
Chenault because they're younger.
I
don't know anyone alive now that can talk to you
about Chenault in a really intimate way. What
about this Carter fellow? What about Carter, this
Carter fellow? Well, Nick
lives over on the other side of town. He's a World
War I pilot. as Chenault was, of course. He's way up
in years. He's even deafer than I am, and he's a
naturally saturnine man. If you wanted to call
him, he'd talk to you, I guess, but I really
wouldn't. Unless you're going to do something on
Chenault, specifically, I wouldn't recommend
it. I was wondering if you considered joining the
American Volunteer Group that Chenault
organized in 1941. I know that he came and talked to
the President Roosevelt and Roosevelt allowed
military flyers to get out of the service to go on a
one-year leave system and sign a contract with
CAMCO, and I was wondering if you were contacted or
thought about that. Look, there's a considerable
misconception about that. A good many friends of
mine did go, so I know where off I speak. It was not
that simple. You were given to understand in no
uncertain terms that if you bought in on that you
were through with the Air Corps.
Now it didn't turn out that way because by God when
the time came the Air Corps needed those guys and
needed them bad and as you know they all formed up in
the Air Corps but that wasn't the way it was offered
nor was it in Spain. I wanted to go to Spain but you
couldn't You couldn't go as an observer. You
couldn't go anyway and still maintain. And by that
time, you see, I had a wife and child, and I just
simply couldn't afford to. There wasn't any way I
could do that. The men that I knew that went, with
one exception, were all bachelors. And the other
one was a guy who was on his way out anyhow. Did you
know some of those people? Who were some of those
people that you knew when they became known as the
Flying Tigers? Oh, let me talk about just one.
He was at Kelly in pursuit, which is the fighters,
and the third time he got lost on a cross country, he
washed out and the reason he did was that The guy
that was running the section then had said, you
know, this is how you do it. This is, here's your
map, and now this map in front of you. And he went to
some damn little place down like Wharton and
couldn't find it. Where was his map? Well, he'd
forgotten. He'd put the map in his luggage
compartment. So he washed him out. So he went to
Spain on a $15,000 contract. And that was pretty
good back then. In fact, it was damn good. And this
fellow that Clyde Rich, he's here retired now too,
showed me a postcard he got from me saying, I go out
on patrol frequently and think of you on each
patrol.
Well, God Almighty, when he came home, he stopped
off in Washington. And of course they were very
anxious to debrief him because we couldn't send
anybody. That was a very bad mistake. This was
proving ground for them. I still regret it. But we
couldn't. That's all there is to it. Order of
Roosevelt. So they debriefed him, but he wouldn't
talk until the guys on the air staff agreed that
they would put him back on duty. as a first
lieutenant and send him to Kelly as an instructor.
So, they had to agree to that, and they did, and he
showed up back at Kelly. Well, when the Chennault
thing came through, he took that and went. What was
his name? Ajax Baumler. A-J-B-A-U-M-L-E-R.
Yeah, I've heard of him. He's a soldier fortune
type. Anyway, he did a damn good job for Chanel.
When it came time to escort, for example, some of
those hot shot guys didn't like to do that. Ajax was
there and he did his job and he ended up as an ace, of
course, but he's all right. He's the only man I ever
turned in for a flag violation. I didn't believe in
that because I violated the rules myself and most
everybody did, but this particular day, By that
time I had a section at Kelly, the far end, and I was
responsible for the flight line on that end and my
people, and I was taking off, there's an old
railroad track going down there. Anyway, here
comes this guy, right square in my traffic, right
down the railroad track, buzzing a train. And I
thought, God damn it. He wasn't satisfied with
that. He came back head on into my traffic. So I
chased him and got his number and turns out it was
Ajax. And his excuse was he was teaching this guy
how to attack a train. I feel, well, he didn't hold
it. any ill will toward me, but I feel sort of guilty
about it. It's the only man I ever did turn in for a
while. That's the kind of man he was. But when the
time came in combat, he was a very cool, very good
man. That's one of them. Another one was a man, one
of my instructors, who was a good pilot, but so-so
as an instructor. I wasn't too sorry to lose him. He
was good. I liked him. What was his name? Sandell.
He was killed. Oh hell, I could name some more, but
it doesn't matter. Hell, Tex Hill's out here if you
want to talk about that. Did you know him? I haven't
met him. I don't know him, no. He doesn't know me
either, I'm sure. Did you know Johnny Allison?
Yes, very well. What kind of man was he? There's
only one of them. He's a cutter. He's a good man.
You know his story, I suppose. I know a little bit
about him, but... Well, let me tell a story about
him which may or may not be on the record. I think it
is, probably.
You remember Roosevelt
said, give the Russians. Okay, that's another
story, and it isn't part of what you're looking at.
Anyway, some Russians came in, and so Arnold was
chief then. So he asked somebody to come up from
Langley to demonstrate a P-40, I believe. Oh yeah,
yeah. So Johnny came up and he really ran that thing
out. He knew he could get away with it, normally you
can't, but he just brought it in right over their
heads and made them duck and then spiraled it up and
so forth and made it look like a good airplane,
which it really wasn't much. And so the Russians
said, well if we're going to get that airplane we
need somebody that can help us handle it. So next
thing you know Johnny was on his way to Moscow. And I
guess I was on,
anyway it converged about the time I was in
England, on my way, whatever. I don't remember my
part of that particular deal. But he was there then
and they just put him in Durham's Vial. He had a
hotel room assigned, of course, and then he had a
place out at the airport assigned, of course,
where the airplanes were And they just kept him
under guard from the hotel, the airport, back to
the hotel. But he did a good job. And you may know
about his later. He came back when the war was on.
Anyway, I mean for us.
Arnold called him in and told him he was to do this
job, which I'm sure you're familiar with.
commander type operation. No, I didn't know about
this. What was this now? Johnny Olsen. Yeah, when
he came back from Russia, Arnold gave him what kind
of job? Well, it was not, the timing, there's a
break in the timing, but we were in the war and they
were going to do this operation behind the lines
out there. And Arnold called him in and told him
that he was to be in charge of the air part of it, and
he could have whatever he needed. But Johnny was
pacing the halls of the goddamn Pentagon then.
Shit, I was gone. Had to be because I didn't
See, when I was dealing with those people, they
were in the munitions building. I didn't know the
Pentagon was there until after I got back after the
war, but that's neither here nor there about the
story on Johnny. Nobody in the goddamn building
knew that Arnold had told him this because it was so
secret. Johnny knew it, Arnold knew it, but when
Johnny went to get something, he didn't know
anything about it.
He had a hell of a job on his hands, but he prevailed.
And what was the commando operation? Oh, hell, it
was a robotic step scheme to drop people behind the
lines, and it worked. In France? The main body of
them were going in gliders. You must know the
story. Anyway, it's in the record. I don't have to
go through all that with you. And, of course, I only
mention it because Ellison is one of a kind. He's a
man that no matter what happens, no matter how bad
it is, he doesn't lose his poise or sense of humor,
which is better. You might think of him as the
renaissance man of the air age. He's a little guy
and that doesn't bother him a bit. Most little guys
it does. Did you know Charlie Bond? Charlie Bond?
Yeah, sure. You're going to talk to him.
What did you think of Bond? I knew him in
peculiar circumstances. He did a hell of a good
job. He was misplaced. Bond is what they used to
call a powder and shot man. He's damn good. He was in
this, what you might call, sort of a
quasi-diplomatic position and he worried about
it and talked to me about it from time to time, but
he's a damn good man. No question about that. But
for his record, talk to him. No. Okay. That didn't
hurt him any. What didn't hurt him? The fact that he
was in an assignment which didn't exactly suit his
best talents. Didn't hurt him a bit. He's a good
man. Okay. Now let's talk about when you went first
to England. Why did you go there? To help the RAF?
No. I went there because... Oh, shit.
There's no use going into the personality of this
damn thing. I went because I wanted to. They had a
war on them. Yeah, I know they went to war in 1939 and
there were some American fliers who joined the
Canadian. Yes, I know a lot of them. Did you think
about doing that? Couldn't for the same reason.
I wouldn't have done it anyhow. By that time I was
too deeply committed to the Air Force. I did
consider it on the other situation, but the terms
on which I had to do it were really out of the
question. My family responsibilities were such
that I just simply couldn't do it. Okay, now why did
they send you to England? To learn about how they
were teaching gunners. That was the mission. And
how long did you stay there? Oh, I don't know. I got
back before the war started. I think I got there 1st
of July and got back the latter part of last of
October, something like that. 1941, so it was
after the Battle of Britain then. Oh, yes. They
were still being bombed, but it wasn't anything
serious. How'd you get along with the British?
Well, I think it's fair to say that I got along with
them just like most everybody, every other U.S.
military person did. I respected them immensely
in some regards and didn't think too highly of
their way of doing things in other regards. It's a
fair statement.
They're extremely good at what they're good at,
and we're a goddamn sight better at what we're good
at. In your opinion, what were they good at and what
were we good at?
The two things that the British are so much better
than we are, the first is guile. I grabbed that word
from somebody that used it on television a while
back about the British, and I thought it fit
exactly, so I'll take it.
They're infinitely better at... Oh, were. Were.
Not necessarily so now. Infinitely better than we
were at intelligence gathering and assessment.
Infinitely better. As far as flying the airplanes
went, they weren't quite as good. As far as
maintaining the equipment was concerned, they
were nowhere near as good as we were. As far as their
medical help was concerned, flight surgeon.
Well, it's the best in the world.
There's no country, no country that compares to
ours with the medical attention that an airman
gets. Ours is just infinitely better. And I mean
any of them. And I've been in Europe and Middle East
and God knows where not. But the British... are not
easy to work with, and I'm sure they say the same of
us, but they're good allies.
The thing that one must remember, and again, I'm
talking about then, not necessarily now, is that
when there's anything that's open for grabs, the
British are going to grab it. They just assume
command without any reason to get it. So you have to
worry about that and fend them off, as it were, when
they try to take over something they have no right
to get.